ExplodeFS: Explode compressed files into a filesystem, carefully.

Introduction
============

A tool to mount archive files (such as zip) to a directory using FUSE,
enabling access to individual file entries within the compressed
archives as normal files directly without the usual intermediate step of
decompression to some temporary location, i.e. all file decompression is
done dynamically, on demand.  This library is constructed with
modularity in mind to enable customization, such as how the file entries
within the archives are to be presented in the mounted location, and
that the helper classes and functions within can be reused elsewhere.

Currently only zip files are supported.

Usage
=====

Simply invoking ``explode`` from the shell this help message will be
presented::

    usage: explode [-h] [-l <strategy>] [--layout-info] [-f] [-d]
                   dir archives [archives ...]

In the most simple form the command can simply be invoked like so::

    $ mkdir /tmp/mnt
    $ explode /tmp/mnt demo1.zip

This will mount the contents of ``demo1.zip`` to ``/tmp/mnt``.  To
verify that this worked, a simple ``ls`` can be used::

    $ ls -l /tmp/mnt/
    total 0
    -r--r--r-- 1 root root 33 Oct 26 23:19 file1
    -r--r--r-- 1 root root 33 Oct 26 23:19 file2
    -r--r--r-- 1 root root 33 Oct 26 23:19 file3
    -r--r--r-- 1 root root 33 Oct 26 23:19 file4
    -r--r--r-- 1 root root 33 Oct 26 23:19 file5
    -r--r--r-- 1 root root 33 Oct 26 23:19 file6

Currently, all files will simply be presented as owned by root and is
read-only by all users.  If you wish to restrict this simply ensure the
directory before is only accessible to the desired users.

To unmount, simply call::

    $ fusermount -u /tmp/mnt/

Or terminate the process if it was ran in the foreground.

It is possible to explode multiple archives onto the target directory::

    $ explode /tmp/mnt demo1.zip demo2.zip

By default, a new layout strategy will be used, which will include the
name of the source archive file.  This can be verified::

    $ ls -l /tmp/mnt/
    total 0
    dr-xr-xr-x 2 root root 0 Oct 26 23:22 demo1.zip
    dr-xr-xr-x 2 root root 0 Oct 26 23:22 demo2.zip

Naturally, this can be changed by specifying the layout strategy with
the ``-l`` or the ``--layout`` flag.  For a detailed list please refer
to the listing generated by ``explode --layout-info``, but for
completeness sake this is what is provided by a default installation:

flatten
    Flattens the directory structure to the root by replacing all path
    separators for each file entries with the `_` character.

junk
    Junk all paths, keep only the basename of file entries.

root
    Present file entries to the root of the mount point.

ziproot
    Present file entries inside a directory named after its source
    archive file.

ziproot_flatten
    Combining ziproot and flatten. Flattens the directory structure to
    the root by replacing all path separators for each file entries with
    the `_` character, with all file names prepended with its source
    archive file name.
